#Collaborative process and Milestones

#### Roles and contributions 
Based on a list of strengths and personal preferences, we subdivided our team in two. 

* Technical team (Dustin, Eli and Maryi): Members in this subdivision identified themselves with programming experience and declare to be comfortable with the project technical requirements. This team will be responsible for selecting the technical tools and resources, and developing the application for the project.  

* Research team (Michael and Krista): Members of this team will be responsible for the production and edition of the project documentation. They will also be the leaders of the research tasks required for the project.

We used Slack for our group discussions and GitHub issues to track the project progress and keep our project oriented discussions.

Every Monday afternoon at 4:30pm we have a virtual meeting through Google Hangouts and every Wednesday we have a face-to-face meeting before class at 12:45pm.

#### About the descriptors
Our intent was to use the MoCA framework as a base, so that it would be used to describe both collaborative work and the features of collaborative tools. However, we discovered that we would need to consider some additional fields to describe collaborative tools. This resulted in some interesting conversations facilitated through Github as we wrestled with developing our lists. We discussed the need for a descriptor of what a tool actually does defined as 'purpose' ([See discussion on Github](https://github.com/maryi/CSCW-Project/issues/7 "See discussion on Github")). Bower's (2015) typology of collaborative software provides a base to populate this descriptor.  

Also in terms of decribing collaborative tools, we discussed the challenge of labeling a tool synchronous or asynchronous 
([See discussion on Github](https://github.com/maryi/CSCW-Project/issues/18 "See discussion on Github")). Using examples of tools we were using at the time to facilitate our own CSCW such as Github and Slack, we had a rich discussion about whether these tools were synchronous or asynchronous. Some felt that synchronous implied real-time voice and video communication, others felt that because the afformentioned tools are increasingly mobile and provide real-time notification and opportunities to respond, they could be labeled synchronous as well. These discussions helped form the basis of our descriptors articulated in the next section.   

#### Individual contributions 
We divided the work in multiple tasks and although everyone was encouraged to contribute to all components of the project and discussions, there was always someone assigned or self-assigned as main responsible.

Below, we present a description of participants responsibilities and tasks so far. Also, we present the list of milestones achieved.

*Krista*: I assisted with research and documentation as well as edited and formatted the project reports. For the project proposal, I was mainly responsible for finding literature reviews about the ‘problem we’re trying to solve’ and editing the report. In addition, I was responsible for creating a list of base applications, which was used to populate the database for our application. This involved searching for collaborative tools and assessing each one based on the list of descriptors that was created. Nearly fifty applications were found for the database. Access to the list can be found [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Trh6Pesxvv5aYfd_x7wXxGmR5k9Y5g7-wpFbezwqi8E/edit?usp=sharing). For the interim report, I created the project milestones, helped incorporate feedback from the proposal into the report and helped edit the document. I also helped create the presentation slides for both the interim and final presentations as well as contributed to discussions on Slack, GitHub issues, and group meetings. For the final report, I helped write the survey results paragraph, wrote about how MoCA was previously used, and reviewed and edited the entire report. For both the interim and final reports, I was responsible for formatting and converting the reports into PDF documents by using LaTeX. I reviewed the reports one last time and then formatted them by transferring all of the information from the markdown file into the LaTeX file.

*Michael*: Primary researcher in charge of literature review and documentation of project progress. Primary editor of project proposal and final project report. Contributed to ongoing progress of application development, descriptors and formulation of the search algorithm. Contributed to project discussions via GitHub issues. Contributed to presentations and facilitated feedback via Slack. Helped to elicit survey participants then digest and collate survey results. Helped coordinate, facilitate and attend twice weekly meetings, one online each Monday and one before class Wednesday's.  

*Eli*: In the beginning phase of the project I worked on designing website mockups as well as contributing to the initial proposal document. After the project proposal was due I started working on finding a service to host the database for our website as well as working on our spreadsheet of applications and describing them according to our descriptors. I also worked on suggesting additional descriptors once we realized that the MoCA framework alone wasn't enough to classify applications. Once I found the initial host for our database (amazon at that time) I worked in porting the apps from the spreadsheet into the database and writing all the SQL required for the database to work. I then worked on the interim report mostly in the technical specifications, limitations, and expected results sections. After the interim report was due I switched the database over to our new and final host Google App engine. I was also responsible for hosting the website using the same service. I then spent my time working on a search algorithm for the website as well as integrating the database with the website which involved establishing a connection and making sure the values from the HTML forms were consistent with what was expected in the database. In the final report I worked on the technical specifications, limitations, expected results, and lessons learned sections as well as reading over the whole document and doing some edits.

*Maryi*: My first task in the group was the creation of the Ethics application as well as all resources that were required to be attached (e.g., email invitation, survey draft). I was the person with more experience working with GitHub, so I created our repository, our initial folder structure and started to use GitHub issues to facilitate project discussions. In the project design, I helped to create the initial mock-ups for our two main functions. Later in the project, I developed the final version of the website design by implementing a CSS template and making changes to improve visual components. Also, I created two additional webpages: home and about us. When the development of the application was ready and we moved to the user validation phase, based on the group feedback, I updated the survey draft and created a Google form to apply the survey. In the interim report, I documented our user requirements and descriptors. For the final report, I documented our Methodology. These documentation processes was always based on group discussion and feedback. In the other report sections, I helped to make editions by providing feedback, raising discussions about certain things a I did not agree with, completing information when necessary and organizing the general structure of the report. In general, in our collaboration process, I helped in the administration of our GitHub repository and helped to keep track of project milestones and progress.


*Dustin*: During the initial stages of the project I collaborated during the group meetings, as each member in the group did, to come to a concensus regarding, but not limited to the following: what we wanted to achieve from this project (our project goal), desciptors and how to make them meaningful, the layout of our MatchMaker Application, colloquial language usage for application implementation, etc. My main contributions to the project concerned the web pages for the application, survey duties, and presentation of our interim report (as well as sections of our final report). When implementing the webpage I had to learn HTML, CSS, PHP, and how they all work together with eachother and our DB (which Eli was responsible for) with very little programming background on these three in particular. This required additional research and trial-and-error testing. Additionally, when our user requirements would evolve I would be responsible for the implementing changes to the application to reflect them. Initially, I had created my own repository for each of the webpages in GitHub(which was also foreign to me) because I thought it would make working on each individual website easier in the case where multiple users wished to contribute to them at the same time; however, this idea was unneccessary and caused a loss of commits when we moved the data into our shared repository (managed by Maryi). Concerning survey duties, my profession allows me to communicate with multiple people from various backgrounds so networking and getting feedback was a natural task for me to undertake. During our interim report I volunteered to present considering I am the most comfortable with being public speaking. I helped create presentation slides for both the interim and final report and rehearsed by part for hours before each presentation day.
Additionally, I coordinated with Eli when making changes to the webpage in order to make implementation of the website the the database as painless as possible, created and answered some issues in GitHub, wrote the bulk of the final presentation concerning survey feedback and future work, and edited some of the final report to help keep the language consistent.

#### Milestones

| Milestone           | Description           | Completion Date  |
| -------------       |-------------        | -----|
| Project Proposal | Literature review, edition and research, list of application requirements, definition of technical implementation, interface design | October 16, 2015 |
| Ethics Application | Complete ethics application for user testing | October 23, 2015 |
| Project Evaluation Methodology | Design application evaluation plan.  Contingent on completion of first draft of working application. |  November 11, 2015 |
| Website | Initial set up on GitHub and implementation of website application | November 9, 2015 |
|Database | Design and initial implementation  | November 9, 2015 |
|Project Update Presentation| Update on project progress | November 4, 2015
| Interim Report      | Report about progress so far    | November 13, 2015 |
|Connect database application and website application | Integration using PHP  |   November 18, 2015 |
|List of Base Applications | Define applications using descriptors and add base list of applications to database | November 16, 2015 |
|User app evaluation| Survey to potential user and analysis of results| November 20, 2015|
|Documentation and Technical changes| Documentation of implementation and tests to website | November 27, 2015|
|App Demo| Prepare app demo v2.0 for project presentation| December 2, 2015 |
|Project Presentation| In class project presentation and app demo| December 2, 2015 |
|Final Report| Prepare project final report| December 5, 2015 |
